




	<div class="section">
<h2 id="h_1">v0.4.2 &ndash; October 22th 2010</h2>
<div class="section">
<h3 id="h_2">3 Features Implemented</h3>
<table><tr><th>ID</th>
					<th>Description</th></tr>
				
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/172">#172</a></td>
		<td><p>A new output? macro macro can be used to test whether Glyph is compiling to a particular output format.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/175">#175</a></td>
		<td><p>The conditional macro now support a third parameter (else branch).</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/176">#176</a></td>
		<td><p>A bunch of new aliases and shortcuts are available for the section macro.</p></td></tr></table>

</div>
	
	
		<div class="section">
<h3 id="h_3">1 Bug Fixed</h3>
<table><tr><th>ID</th>
					<th>Description</th></tr>
				
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/178">#178</a></td>
		<td><p>No error is raised anymore if less than the required parameters/attributes are supplied to a rewritten macro.</p></td></tr></table>

</div>

</div>

	<div class="section">
<h2 id="h_4">v0.4.1 &ndash; September 23th 2010</h2>
<div class="section">
<h3 id="h_5">5 Bugs Fixed</h3>
<table><tr><th>ID</th>
					<th>Description</th></tr>
				
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/169">#169</a></td>
		<td><p>*.scss files are now supported by the style macro.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/170">#170</a></td>
		<td><p>Improved default CodeRay stylesheet.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/171">#171</a></td>
		<td><p><span class="caps">SCSS</span> now used internally by Glyph to generate default <span class="caps">CSS</span> files.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/173">#173</a></td>
		<td><p>Consecutive escape sequences are now interpreted correctly in topics.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/174">#174</a></td>
		<td><p>Fixed error causing broken images in web5/html5 output.</p></td></tr></table>

</div>

</div>

	<div class="section">
<h2 id="h_6">v0.4.0 &ndash; September 3th 2010</h2>
<div class="section">
<h3 id="h_7">13 Features Implemented</h3>
<table><tr><th>ID</th>
					<th>Description</th></tr>
				
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/40">#40</a></td>
		<td><p>A new stats command can be used to display statistics about project files, snippets, macros, bookmarks and links.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/73">#73</a></td>
		<td><p>It is now possible to validate online <span class="caps">HTTP</span> links.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/112">#112</a></td>
		<td><p>It is now possible to use <em>wkhtmltopdf</em> instead of Prince to generate <span class="caps">PDF</span> files from <span class="caps">HTML</span> files.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/114">#114</a></td>
		<td><p>It is now possible to generate documents comprised of multiple files (topics).</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/115">#115</a></td>
		<td><p>It is now possible to define layouts (used when generating multi-file outputs) using Glyph macros.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/120">#120</a></td>
		<td><p>It is now possible to compile your project to a single HTML5 file (<code>html5</code> output) or multiple files (<code>web5</code> output)</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/135">#135</a></td>
		<td><p>Stylesheets can now be linked and imported as well as embedded.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/138">#138</a></td>
		<td><p><code>web</code> and <code>web5</code> output formats inherit <code>html</code> macros.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/142">#142</a></td>
		<td><p>A new navigation macro can be used in <code>web</code> and <code>web5</code> outputs to navigate through topics.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/143">#143</a></td>
		<td><p>A topic-based <span class="caps">TOC</span> is generated when compiling to <code>web</code> or <code>web5</code></p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/144">#144</a></td>
		<td><p>Two new validators are now available to check whether a macro has (or doesn&#8217;t have) a certain ancestor: <code>within</code> and <code>not_within</code>.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/147">#147</a></td>
		<td><p>The default stylesheets provided by Glyph are now compatible with HTML5 outputs (html5 and web5).</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/148">#148</a></td>
		<td><p>It is now possible to create custom tasks and commands to extend Glyph functionality.</p></td></tr></table>

</div>
	
	
		<div class="section">
<h3 id="h_8">7 Bugs Fixed</h3>
<table><tr><th>ID</th>
					<th>Description</th></tr>
				
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/133">#133</a></td>
		<td><p>Added <span class="caps">HTML</span> charset to Glyph documents (utf-8).</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/136">#136</a></td>
		<td><p>Moved utility functions to separate <code>Glyph::Utils</code> module.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/139">#139</a></td>
		<td><p>Heavily restructured Glyph configuration.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/140">#140</a></td>
		<td><p>Added <code>Glyph::Macro::Helpers</code> module to avoid code duplication in macros for different output formats.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/141">#141</a></td>
		<td><p>Prevented non-rb files to be loaded as macros.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/145">#145</a></td>
		<td><p>Dotfiles are now ignored by init command.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/167">#167</a></td>
		<td><p>Fixed <span class="caps">PDF</span> book download links.</p></td></tr></table>

</div>

</div>

	<div class="section">
<h2 id="h_9">v0.3.0 &ndash; June 13th 2010</h2>
<div class="section">
<h3 id="h_10">13 Features Implemented</h3>
<table><tr><th>ID</th>
					<th>Description</th></tr>
				
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/39">#39</a></td>
		<td><p>A new outline command is available to display the document outline.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/110">#110</a></td>
		<td><p>It is now possible to use Glyph language to produce arbitrary <span class="caps">XML</span> code.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/111">#111</a></td>
		<td><p>System settings are now stored within a <code>system.*</code> namespace and cannot be changed via the config: macro or the config command.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/116">#116</a></td>
		<td><p>It is now possible to use named attributes within Glyph macros.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/119">#119</a></td>
		<td><p><a id="new_parser"></a>A new parser was implemented from scratch to improve performance. Treetop gem no longer required.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/121">#121</a></td>
		<td><p>Some macros have been removed in favor of <span class="caps">XML</span> fallback, others have been updated.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/123">#123</a></td>
		<td><p>The SyntaxNode class has been specialized to differentiate between macros, attributes, parameters, text and escapes.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/124">#124</a></td>
		<td><p>Implemented new article macro and book macro.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/126">#126</a></td>
		<td><p>A new rewrite: macro has been implemented to create simple macros using just Glyph code.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/127">#127</a></td>
		<td><p>A new alias macro has been implemented to create macro aliases.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/128">#128</a></td>
		<td><p>A blacklist for <span class="caps">XML</span> tags has been exposed via the <code>language.options.xml_blacklist</code> setting.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/129">#129</a></td>
		<td><p>The include macro can now be used in lite mode, it can evaluate ruby files and requires relative paths.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/130">#130</a></td>
		<td><p>A new &#8220;safe mode&#8221; has been implemented to explicitly forbid certain potentially unsafe macros.</p></td></tr></table>

</div>
	
	
		<div class="section">
<h3 id="h_11">3 Bugs Fixed</h3>
<table><tr><th>ID</th>
					<th>Description</th></tr>
				
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/109">#109</a></td>
		<td><p>Performance has been dramatically improved by implementing a parser from scratch (see <a href="#new_parser">#119</a>)</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/122">#122</a></td>
		<td><p>Macro encoding/decoding no longer necessary due to the new parser (see <a href="#new_parser">#119</a>)</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/125">#125</a></td>
		<td><p>Warning messages have been streamlined.</p></td></tr></table>

</div>

</div>

	<div class="section">
<h2 id="h_12">v0.2.0 &ndash; May 9th 2010</h2>
<div class="section">
<h3 id="h_13">11 Features Implemented</h3>
<table><tr><th>ID</th>
					<th>Description</th></tr>
				
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/62">#62</a></td>
		<td><p>A new highlight macro is available to highlight source code (CodeRay or UltraViolet required).</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/76">#76</a></td>
		<td><p>It is now possible to use Glyph programmatically via the new <code>Glyph#filter</code> and <code>Glyph#compile</code> methods.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/87">#87</a></td>
		<td><p>It is now possible to define snippets inside a Glyph source file using the snippet: macro.</p></td></tr>	
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/88">#88</a></td>
		<td><p>It is now possible to change configuration settings inside a Glyph source file using the config: macro (Jabbslad).</p></td></tr>	
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/89">#89</a></td>
		<td><p>It is now possible to compile a single Glyph source file without creating a Glyph project.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/92">#92</a></td>
		<td><p>6 new macros have been defined to allow conditional processing (condition macro, eq macro, not macro, and macro, or macro, match macro)</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/94">#94</a></td>
		<td><p>It is now possible to add <em>validators</em> to macros, for example to check the number of parameters they take.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/97">#97</a></td>
		<td><p>The compile command command can now take an extra <code>--auto</code> switch to trigger document auto-regeneration whenever a source file is changed (koraktor).</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/99">#99</a></td>
		<td><p>Added a <code>document.draft</code> setting. If set to <code>true</code>, comments and TODOs are rendered in output files.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/100">#100</a></td>
		<td><p><a id="system_css"></a>Glyph <span class="caps">CSS</span> files are no longer copied to new projects, but they can be referenced as if they were (see also <a href="#css_not_copied">#93</a>).</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/108">#108</a></td>
		<td><p>It is now possible to define Glyph macros within Glyph source files using the macro: macro.</p></td></tr></table>

</div>
	
	
		<div class="section">
<h3 id="h_14">8 Bugs Fixed</h3>
<table><tr><th>ID</th>
					<th>Description</th></tr>
				
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/86">#86</a></td>
		<td><p>Warning and error messages have been updated, and it is now possible to show additional debug information. Additionally, syntax errors are now handled before the document is processed.</p></td></tr> 
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/93">#93</a></td>
		<td><p><a id="css_not_copied"></a>Default css files were not copied when creating a new project. The issue has been resolved by allowing the style macro to reference Glyph&#8217;s system styles (see also <a href="#system_css">#100</a>).</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/95">#95</a></td>
		<td><p>The config command did not save data to <span class="caps">YAML</span> configuration files. This has been fixed ensuring that internal configuration overrides are not saved to the <span class="caps">YAML</span> file too.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/98">#98</a></td>
		<td><p>Glyph is now fully compatible with Ruby 1.9.1 and JRuby 1.4.0.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/101">#101</a></td>
		<td><p>Additional tests have been developed to improve Textile support. There should no longer be errors when using textile block elements inside Glyph macros.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/103">#103</a></td>
		<td><p>Fixed a bug that caused test failures when deleting the test project directory.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/104">#104</a></td>
		<td><p>Nested Glyph macros calling <code>Macro#interpret</code> no longer ignore escape delimiters.</p></td></tr>
		
	<tr><td><a href="http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues/closed#issue/107">#107</a></td>
		<td><p>Added the possibility to encode (using the <code>encode</code> macro) and decode (using the <code>decode</code> macro) macros so that they can be interpreted later.</p></td></tr></table>

</div>

</div>

	<div class="section">
<h2 id="h_15">v0.1.0 &ndash; April 8th 2010</h2>
Initial release.

</div>