Glyph is a _Rapid Document Authoring Framework_. 

Think of it like a sort of =>[http://www.rubyonrails.org|Ruby on Rails] but for creating text documents instead of web sites. With Glyph, you can manage your documents tidily in _projects_ that can be used to generate deliverables in different formats such as HTML or PDF (through &[prince]).

section[header[Main Features]

Glyph uses a =>[#macros_nutshell|simple macro system] to perform a wide variety of advanced tasks:
* Generate block-level HTML tags not commonly managed by lightweight markups, like @head@, @body@, @div@ and @table@.
* Create and validate internal and external links.
* Include and validate images and figures.
* Automatically determine header levels based on the document structure.
* Automatically generate a Table of Contents based on the document structure.
* Store common snippets of text in a single YAML file and use them anywhere in your document, as many times as you need.
* Store configuration settings in a YAML file and use them anywhere in your document, as many times as you need.
* Evaluate Ruby code within your document.
* Call macros from other macros (including snippets), carefully avoiding mutual calls.
* Include text files in other text files.
* Include the contents of configuration settings (author, title) in the document.
* Filter input explicitly or implicitly, based on file extensions when including files. 
* Manage comments and todo items.
]

section[header[Installation]

@gem install glyph@ -- simple, as always.

]

section[header[Essential Glyph commands]

Glyph is 100% command line. Its interface resambles =>[http://git-scm.com/|Git's] for its simplicity and power (thanks to the =>[http://github.com/davetron5000/gli|Gli] gem). Here are some example commands: 

* @glyph init@ -- to initialize a new Glyph project in the current (empty) directory.
* @glyph add introduction.textile@ -- to create a new file called _introduction.textile_.
* @glyph compile@ -- to compile the current document into a single HTML file.
* @glyph compile -f pdf@ -- to compile the current document into HTML and then transform it into PDF using &[prince].

]

section[header[Glyph macros in a nutshell|macros_nutshell]

Format your documents using Textile or Markdown, and use Glyph Macros to do everything else:

**Glyph Source:**

code[=
section[header[Something about Glyph]
You can use Glyph macros in conjunction
 with _Textile_ or _Markdown_ to
produce HTML files effortlessly.
  section[header[What about PDFs?|pdf]
Once you have a single, well-formatted HTML 
file, converting it to PDF is
extremely easy with a 3rd-party 
renderer like =>[http://www.princexml.com|Prince].
  ]   
]
=]

**HTML Output:**

<notextile>
code[=
<div class="section">
  <h2 id="h_10">Something about Glyph</h2>
  <p>You can use Glyph macros in conjunction with 
     <em>Textile</em> or <em>Markdown</em> to
     produce HTML files effortlessly.</p>
  <div class="section">
   <h3 id="pdf">What about PDFs?</h3>
   <p>Once you have a single, well-formatted HTML 
      file, converting it to PDF is
      extremely easy with a 3rd-party renderer 
      like <a href="http://www.princexml.com">Prince</a>.</p>
  </div>
</div>
=]</notextile>
]

section[header[Resources]

* Home Page: =>[http://www.h3rald.com/glyph/]
* Repository: =>[http://www.github.com/h3rald/glyph/]
* Bug Tracking: =>[http://www.github.com/h3rald/glyph/issues]
* Book (PDF): =>[http://github.com/h3rald/glyph/raw/master/book/output/pdf/glyph.pdf]
* Reference Documentation: =>[http://yardoc.org/docs/h3rald-glyph/]
* User Group: =>[http://groups.google.com/group/glyph-framework]
]
